Partnering for Equity Business Plan+ Website design
This has two sections. Basic Business plan from 1-13 and 14+ website design
We partner with 20-100 C-suite executives, Business consultants and business founders to each acquire 5+ Established Businesses, systemise everything, grow the group's value, and exit to Private Equity.
Our Objective
Over 3 years, we will acquire equity in 50-100 companies and 200-500 within 5
This is achieved by sourcing 20+ JV delivery Partners who wish to grow their net worth and create financial security by undertaking a buy-and-build roll-up and exit within 3-5 years. We call these our Equity Partners
If they already have a business, we stabilise and systemise it to become the flagship, helping attract other businesses to sell to us.
We will build the 20 groups over the 3-5 years by sourcing 200+ older founders of businesses in a select group of sectors. They will have revenue of Ł1m-Ł20m and will be keen to exit in 1-5 yrs. We call these our Succession Founders.
Our team will implement systems such as ERP and AI alongside marketing and sales processes and systems. Within 3 months, we will take 20% equity for the work undertaken and acquire more equity within 12 to 24 months.
Revenue will come from set-up fees from Equity Partners, NED fees paid by the Succession Founders, ERP and AI fees, Revenue shares, referral commissions, business sales, dividends and several roll-up exits.
1

The Two Primary Avatars
We have two primary Avatars. One to help acquire businesses alongside us (Equity Partners)(two versions), and one to sell their business to us. (Succession Founders)(one version)
Avatar one. The Equity Partners version 1
We will engage with Business Founders (typically aged 35-55), and they will already have a business revenue of Ł1m to Ł20m, and they wish to increase their networth by Ł5m- Ł20million
We will achieve this goal through forming a JV holding company separate from their current company. This protects their asset
We then nurture and acquire businesses from succession founders to grow a group we can exit for Ł10m-Ł50m within 3 to 5 years.
Our Equity Partners are excellent at delivering the service in their sector because they have sector-specific knowledge and extensive experience.
Their struggles
1. They don't know how to build a Group that is attractive to PE 2. They don't know how to build a business around their service, 3. They don't know how to build enterprise value, 4. They don't know how to scale, aka Acquire businesses 5. They don't know how to build the infrastructure to build or scale 6. They don't have formal processes, with many of them dwelling inside key
people 7. They lack the systems required to build and scale 8. They lack the expertise and experience to acquire other businesses
Potential website: www.grow-scale-exit.partners
2

Avatar two. The Equity Partners version 2
We will engage with C-suite executives and high end consultants who wish to increase their net worth and financial security to undertake a buy and build to build their net worth.
They could be the type typically attracted to the Stanford Model or the traditional model promoted by the various `trainers' in lower market M&A
Or they could be currently advising/ consulting businesses on growth and exits, but they are not taking equity and/ or not undertaking a roll-up. There are probably over 2,000 of these consultants in the UK, with them all being on LinkedIn
They wish to increase their net worth by Ł5m- Ł20million and are tired of simply selling their expertise for a retainer and bonuses/ profit share
We will achieve this goal through a JV holding company. Together, we will then nurture and acquire businesses from Succession Founders to grow a group they can exit for Ł10m-Ł50m within 3 to 5 years.
These partners are excellent at advising business leadership teams or managing a large team in corporate.
Their struggles
9. They don't know to build a Group that is attractive to PE 10. They don't know how to acquire businesses effectively. 11. They don't understand how to build enterprise value, 12. They lack the infrastructure to build or scale 13. They lack the systems required to build and scale
Potential website: www.partnering-for-equity.com
3

Avatar two. Succession Founders.
Over the next 3-5 years, we engage with 200 older business founders with revenue between Ł1m and Ł20m who wish to exit within 3 to 5 years but have no interest in a roll-up or acquiring other businesses. All of whom will operate in complementary sectors to our Equity Partners
We will engage with the Succession founders who wish to maximise the value of their business and exit their business safely, confident that their team is looked after and they receive an income to sustain them financially.
These founders struggle with a series of issues that we solve
1. Their mindset tends to have shifted more towards building a legacy, but they don't know how
2. They are more focused on securing their retirement, but they don't know how to achieve this
3. Their business is not in a fit state to sell to a buyer 4. Their business does not have the processes and systems to operate
without them, making it challenging to sell, and the value is reduced 5. They may also be `fed up' with their current role and yearn for the `old
days' when their lives were simpler. 6. They are growing increasingly concerned about the impact of AI and
if their business will survive. 7. They may also yearn to have more time with their grandchildren 8. They or their spouse may be dealing with ill health 9. They lack motivation because they don't have a young team by their
side who are experienced business leaders
There are over 500,000 such businesses in the UK, and we have a database system that can identify them all.
Website for Avatar two www.build-to-retire.co.uk
4

Our primary services. Equity Partners
 We will set up a Group holding company that will acquire equity in a series of companies similar to theirs.
 We share the equity of this group with the Equity Partners, 30% for them and 70% for us. Over time, we may amend these proportions for new entrants.
 We partner with them because they understand the market we are buying into, and they offer their sector knowledge and reputation. They understand sector politics and are plugged into the `rumour mill'.
 We will mentor the founder to become the person they need to become to be the CEO of the group. (or bring in a CEO.......))
 We stabilise and systemise their business to increase profits, the value and be the flagship in the Group.
 We help them source the 5-20 businesses to be acquired by the Group.
 We will help them stabilise the businesses we are acquiring  We will help them systemise the businesses we are acquiring  We will help to be able to acquire the Succession Founders
businesses  We will help raise Finance for MBO Acquisitions  We will help them build wealth outside of their business with SSAS  We will arrange the exit of the group to PE or IPO  We will prepare their business to be acquired by the group within 18
months to two years. (if relevant)
5

Our primary services. Succession Founders
 We will derisk their business so we can acquire it  We will stabilise and systemise their business and give the business
the ability to grow, and then be scaled by the new buyer (us)  We will focus on derisking the business so we are less exposed on
acquisition.  In other words, preparing the business to sell to us within 12 months
or to another buyer if they don't fit into one of our groups  Implement NetSuite or another more suitable ERP  Implement AI systems  Implement Marketing and sales processes and systems  Building wealth outside of their business  Giving the owner a role so they retain their purpose.  Acquire their business
6

Examples
An Equity Partners. A founder wishing to grow and exit of their business for much more than they are worth today. A fire safety business with a 50-year-old founder. No Finance Director, no Sales Director and no Marketing Director. The business has grown to Ł8m in revenue and Ł1m in EBITDA. The founder has taken 18 years to reach this point and is hungry to grow and exit in the foreseeable future for over Ł20m. He needs to be at circa Ł3m EBITDA to achieve this target; we will reach Ł5m.
1. He is attracted to our VP, as explained on our website www.grow-scale-exit.partners or www.p4e.com or our YouTube series
2. To explain how we secure the loyalty and commitment of business founders we wish to acquire, we review their business. They will then realise how many issues they need to solve to become sellable themselves and flagship to the new Group members.
3. In most cases, we will ascertain that they require an ERP system (NetSuite) to enhance enterprise value and streamline operations.
4. We implement systems into their business to enable them to have more time to focus on working with us to grow their Group
5. We set up a holding company that we jointly own with the founder, 30/70 in our favour. This does not add any risk to his current business.
6. We source 20+ similar businesses and undertake a P4E or straight acquisition. We can use www.build-to-retire.co.uk to attract them.
7. We prepare the 20 businesses to sell to us and add them to the jointly owned group company.
8. We implement our ERP system, i.e., NetSuite, in all acquisitions that then enables us to assimilate the new business into the Group
9. We implement improved marketing and sales processes 10. We implement AI to complement NetSuite 11.We sell off acquisitions that cannot be assimilated or do not fit the group. 12. We invite the initial `platform' business to join the group by selling to the
group at some point in the future 13. We sell the group to PE or IPO
7

Example 2
A business to acquire. A founder wishing to sell within 3-5 years with no interest in buying another business. A fire safety business with Ł3m in revenue and Ł500k in EBITDA. Owned by a 63-year-old who is now getting fed up with running the business and wishes to sell.
1. We source the target business by (a ) sending them one of our books, (b) being referred by an accountant, ( c) they answer a social media post
2. We review the business and ascertain the issues and opportunities. 3. We value the business to ascertain what it is worth now and what it could
be worth 4. We explain that `we' will acquire his equity within his business once the
issues have been resolved. He agrees and engages us under a number of agreements. 4.1 We sign a Call Option to acquire all or part of their equity for a pre-determined price within 12-18 months. 4.2 We sign a NED agreement and charge a monthly retainer for overseeing the implementation of the improvements required 4.3 We agree on a revenue share that takes a proportion of the increased revenue. 4.4 We take 20% equity after 3 months and then have shareholder agreements. By this point, the value of the business should have increased by more than 20%, and they have become dependent on us 4.5 We acquire the rest of the equity after 12 months or so. 5. We implement the ERP system (NetSuite), led by the current owner, so we reduce friction within the team and underpin the systems. 6. We build the business as equity holders 7. Over time, we take `hats' from the founder and encourage him to take a role in the business that is more `fun'. 8. After 12 months, we acquire the rest of the equity. 9. We will raise finance to undertake an MBO. Using either bank funding or a Secured Annuity Bond. 10. We fully assimilate the company into the Group
8

The Team

David Hargraves CEO

Ric Wilson

COO

Emma Dutton CFO

TBC

CMO

TBC

CSO

TBC

Chairman

`Panel of Experts and Advisors'

Kevin Kinsella

Supported Living Partner https://www.linkedin.com/in/kevin-kinsella-71072931/

Julie Gibson

tbd Partner

linkedin.com/in/juliegibson140

Marc Riley

Commercial Maintenance Partner

Andy Baker

Professional development for the team of companies we aquire

Keith Tully

Compliance & Restructuring

Tim Mills

Corporate Finance

Andrew McHale

Commercial Solicitors

Tom Cardwell.

Wealth protection systems

Kathryn Taylor.

Wealth Building(SSAS)

Philip White

Funding

Gary Lennon

Funding

Jeff Yu

Funding

Alan Bineham

Funding

Henry Audley Charles Asset Finance

Tony Martinez

Tax Advice

Parminder Chattha Tax Advice

Heather Watters

Website design

Kate Warmsley

HR

TBC

M&A lawyer

TBC

Fractional FD X5

TBC

AI systems and integration

TBC

Google PPC etc

TBC

IT security (this is going to explode)

TBC

Compliance (these will depend on the markets)

9

Branding and URLs
We have two brands and two websites because we have two different messages for two complementary avatars before bringing them together. One brand to attract younger founders (Equity Partners) keen to grow that leads to an exit, and one brand to attract older founders who are keen to exit soon. (Succession Founders)
Brand for Equity Partners wishing to buy and then exit The Brand Partnering for Equity
www.partnering-for-equity.com (we own this, and we need to build this site...words below)
The Brand two; Grow Scale Equity Partners
Grow Scale and Exit is now a common phrase, and we `partner' with those who are serious and have a platform business. This brand is ideal for our avatar, who already owns a substantial business and wishes to scale by undertaking a buy-and-build
www.grow-scale-exit.partners needs to be acquired
10

Brand for Succession Founders looking to sell and exit to retire or step back
Choice 1: Build to Retire
www.build-to-retire.co.uk (site built but poorly designed atm)
Examples https://www.ever-growth.com/ https://clearexitpartners.com/
https://opccapitalpartners.com/
Marketing
Primary methods to source younger founders (Equity Partners) wishing to partner with us to acquire more businesses.
1. Source them on LinkedIn and invite them to have a conversation. 2. Send a copy of our two books in advance. 3. Youtube channel 4. Accountants who want to add advisory services for those clients of
theirs who wish to acquire other businesses. 5. Using data to source the avatars, write to them with a copy of
Partnering for Equity. Follow up with face-to-face meetings. We need 20 of these and this source would probably find far more than we need
11

Methods to source older founders who wish to sell and exit. Brand: Build to Retire
1. Use our data source and write to them and send them a copy of our book, Build to Retire and Retire without Selling your Business.
2. Youtube channel 3. Accountants who wish to sell advisory services to their older clients in need
of preparing their business for sale. Such as restructuring. 4. Brokers who wish to maximise the value of the businesses they are selling
so they receive a higher commission. 5. Create YouTube content that is relevant to them 6. Create partnerships with Fractional FDs to refer to us 7. Create partnerships with Brokers to refer to us
Sectors
These are examples of businesses where 1. ERP and AI will make a substantial difference in value 2. We can sell companies that don't fit the model easily and with a substantial gain 3. PE has an appetite for the sector and will pay a high value 4. There are a large number of these businesses to acquire 5. The market is fragmented, yet there are larger buyers
1. Vets 2. Dentists 3. Care Homes 4. Children's homes 5. Supported living (adults) 6. Fire safety 7. Electrical Installations (Commercial) 8. HVAC 9. Facilities Management 10. Commercial cleaning 11.Commercial Waste 12. Commercial Property Management 13. Commerical testing
12

14. Recruitment 15. MSP 16. Accountants 17. Printing/ signage
Roles and responsibilities
The Board currently has only two members; roles will be concentrated for a few months.
David
Sourcing both younger and older founders and securing the deals Sourcing all our professional service providers Sourcing professional referral partners
Ric
Implementing ERP, AI and financial systems in our partners' businesses
13

Website notes www.partnering-for-equity.com
These notes should help build the first website aimed at the Equity Partners interested in working with us to source businesses to buy, where together we derisk the businesses and acquire them.
Throughout the entire website, we will embed a video for each page where we will explain that section.
Website top bar Tabs (the words are within the body of this document
below)
1 Why you Should Join us
1.1 The basic process 1.2 Why acquire companies and create a group? 1.3 Our Partnering for Equity model 1.4 The main benefits for you of partnering with us 1.5 Our Role 1.6 Why should we help you? 1.7 The Issues We Solve 1.8 Gaining Equity Stakes before we Acquire Them
1.9 Become the Author of a book helping business sellers.
2. Our Team 4. Resources 5. Contact us 6. Our YouTube
14

Website Potential strap lines
Building your Wealth through Business Acquisitions
We build financial security by partnering with you to acquire a series of businesses, leading to a successful exit to Private Equity from Ł10million to Ł100million
Our compelling approach combines your skills honed over decades and our systems and processes that enable the acquisition of a group of companies that we exit together to Private Equity.
1.Why you should join us
If you have been consulting or been a C-suite for over 10 years, you will have made other people Łmillionaires. Maybe it's time for you to feather your own nest by building a group of companies and sell these to PE? But how do you achieve that? Following our strategy and using our systems, we can help you acquire several businesses without risking your own business or capital, leading to the creation of a group you could sell for Ł20million or more within around 3 years. The building of a valuable group is achievable thanks to our Partnering for Equity strategy and supported by our stabilise, systemise and scale systems. More on this later Call to action webform
Include a video on this page of the above
15

1.1 The basic process
1. We give you a copy of our best-selling book, Build to Retire, where you co-author the book by adding your knowledge and experience to your own version. This gives you considerable authority in your space
2. We source a series of companies where the owner is looking to retire within 1-5 years, using this book as a lead magnet.
3. There are hundreds of buyers chasing most over 55-year-olds with a business over Ł1m, and this is a huge problem for anyone trying to acquire a business. We overcome this red ocean market by offering to help them exit well, rather than wishing to buy them. This marketing strategy cuts through the noise, landing you 50x as many meetings with potential sellers
4. Upon meeting the exiting owner, you assess their current business risks and value using our assessment tools.
5. The assessment will show the owner the considerable volume of issues and risks that would result in a down valuation and probably the inability to sell their business.
6. We discover what they need to achieve on an exit and ascertain the gap between their companies' (dire) position today and where it needs to be to achieve their goals.
7. We offer to acquire them in the future for an agreed amount, and that is often more than today's value. We do so using our Call Option agreement, but we need to fix the issues first.
8. You are engaged as a NED with the remit of fixing the issues so we can acquire them in circa 12 months. You quickly become their `right-hand man', and you also become indispensable.
9. During this time, we also implement our ERP systems so we can later assimilate this business into the group. This will ensure the business is much easier to operate and easier to sell to others if we decide that we don't want it
10.Within 3 to 6 months, we take an equity stake of 20% to 30% for the work we have undertaken so far and the growth in value achieved. The value of the business would probably have increased by 50% or more, and they will now be dependent on our systems, your guidance and support.
11.After 12 to 18 months or so, we acquire all or a proportion of the rest of the equity we agreed upon within our Call Option agreement. The shares of which are owned in our JV holding company.
16

12.The acquisition is either 100% funded by the banks as an MBO, or we use a Secured Annuity Bond. Either way, we are not using your capital
13.If the company does not fit our Group model, we sell it to another buyer rather than acquiring it ourselves. We have 20% to 30% equity, and this results in a liquidity event typically valued at over Ł1m each business. We will probably have one of these per year.
14.We rinse and repeat this process until you are a NED in five companies. More if you can handle it, less if you can't.
15.We support and acquire each of these companies until we have a group with EBITDA over Ł5m, and we then sell to PE.
16.This process should take circa 3 years from the outset. 17.Selling a Ł5m EBITDA systemised group is often worth circa Ł50m+. Once we
have paid off the debt (circa Ł10m) we are left with Ł40m, which you receive 50% of as our Equity Partner
Include a video on this page of the above
 
1.2 Why acquire companies and create a group?
By acquiring companies, you can add Ł1m to Ł10m in profit to your business and Ł10m to Ł100m to its value.
Acquiring a company that you have prepared to acquire is a very low-risk strategy compared to growing organically. It's also considerably faster.
Reason one: Arbitrage. The larger the profit, the larger the multiple you can sell your business for. For example, one company with Ł500k profit is probably worth 3 times the profit, i.e., Ł1.5m. But, if you own 10 of these companies and they each make Ł500k, giving you a total of Ł5m, the multiple of their worth jumps to 6x profit. So the first business that was worth Ł1.5m is now worth Ł3m without making any more profit. That's why scaling is considerably more profitable than organic growth
Reason two: reduce overheads. By creating a group, you can amalgamate services such as the finance function and other back office and head office functions. This reduces the cost burdens
17

You can implement cross-group ERP and AI systems, improving margins and therefore increasing the value on an exit.
Reason three: attract Private Equity. Once you reach Ł3m in Ebitda, Private Equity becomes interested in acquiring you. As long as the business is underpinned by ERP, has a robust AI system and a superb leadership team to run the business. PE DO NOT run businesses! If any of these systems are missing, expect PE to run a mile or ask for a discount that will cost you Łmillions!
Include a video on this page of the above
1.3 Our Partnering for Equity model 
Our Partnering for Equity is by far the most effective, safest and ethical way to acquire equity in profitable Ł1m+ revenue businesses, resulting in the creation of a valuable group of companies that could be sold to PE for a life-changing amount.   Our strategy is designed to ensure you gain equity in multiple profitable businesses before 'traditional business buyers' have even had their first meeting.   Our approach centres on the premise that you gain equity in profitable businesses by helping owners of other businesses to maximise the value of their business.   This strategy is also more ethical than traditional methods, because we ensure that owners who have put their blood, sweat and tears into their business can also retire with
more income and security. 
 When designing this strategy, we started by asking the ethical question first, "If this were our parents' business, what deal would we do with them?"   Partnering for Equity is the deal I would do with my parents because more traditional methods rely on the 'greater fools game' where the fool is the seller.
In our opinion, the traditional method to acquire a business is deeply immoral and unethical, with the seller often falling victim. I would not want my parents to be the fools when selling or exiting their business.   
We believe that by helping others first, we help ourselves. 
18


Include a video on this page of the above
1.4 The main benefits for you of partnering with us

1. We gain an initial equity stake without using loans. Our Partnering for Equity model should result in you gaining circa 20%+ equity for improving the business, and not because you have used reserves or finance.   Using your own funds or borrowing money to buy a business should be avoided before the business is in a fit state to acquire, and you have spent time with the business. To do otherwise is a fool's errand   2. Opens up the market. Partnering for Equity should enable you to engage with the vast majority of your target audience before they consider selling, making you their primary choice to acquire their business.

If there are 5,000 businesses in your target audience, probably less than 100 will be actively selling today, and with our help, you can target the other 4,900 as well as the 100 selling.  5. Acquire more businesses. With traditional methods, you would be lucky to acquire 1 in every 20 business owners you talk to after spending Ł10,000+ in marketing to create the meetings. The ROAS on traditional methods can be very low. Those being funded to follow the Stanford model often require $300,000 before they can secure their
first acquisition.  
By being helpful and practising the Partnering for Equity model, you should increase the number of leads that you can talk to and convert to acquisitions.   6. To acquire companies, you first need to achieve total buy-in by 100% of the team, and we have developed a process to achieve this
We assess and map the team's structure, their strengths, and weaknesses, and we will close critical skill gaps in the team
We then lead by defining and communicating a clear mission, vision and set of values everyone believes in.
19

This leads to the whole team being inspired, and this creates the trust, clarity and sense of direction that turns the team into advocates.
This allows them to grow by investing in training, smart recruitment and the next generation of leaders.
We Nurture the team by Building an environment that earns loyalty, drives retention and makes people stay.
A critical set of steps prior to improving processes and systems.
8. 80% of businesses are not fit to buy.
Most businesses are not in a fit state to buy, excluding most buyers from the market. Our Partnering for Equity strategy enables you to acquire equity in these 'high-risk' businesses by reducing the risks by helping them prepare their business for sale or for
their management team to operate the business.  9. We become the 'go-to' people in your sector when someone wishes to sell.
Our Partnering for Equity strategy is more helpful and supportive when compared to traditional methods. With traditional methods, we liken the process to being a vulture waiting for an animal to be vulnerable, but our model is helpful and enhances the lives of founders wishing to exit.  Traditional business buying methods often alienate sellers, and our strategy is designed to attract them because you are helping them. Being the author of a book should make you a go-to person almost overnight! This should lead to 100x times more engagement and trust from the get-go.  10. Avoid the crowds. With our Partnering for Equity strategy, we should be able to engage with and then acquire equity in businesses that have yet to decide that they are selling. This constitutes over 95% of your target audience who will be ignoring your competitors' letters, Facebook adverts and LinkedIn approaches. As mentioned earlier, if there are 5,000 businesses in your target audience, probably only 100 will be 'up for
sale', and our strategy targets these 100 and the other 4,900. 
11. Stand out from the crowd. Our ideal acquisitions will be targeted by 50+ other
20

seekers/ buyers and brokers, with all other buyers using pretty much the same message: "Are you selling your business?".  Whereas, our Partnering for Equity strategy should enable you to stand out from this crowd by offering a far more helpful, ethical and collaborative approach, and you should be the only one who is an author of a book that's helping them maximise the value of
their business. Stand out or lose out. 
12. Overcome the emotional issues of selling a business. Using the Partnering for Equity strategy should enable you to overcome many of the emotional issues that scupper many business sales. That's because you spend time with the owners before you take equity. Ensuring they read your book will lay the foundations for this.   13. Over 80% of businesses cannot sell because their business is not worth enough for them to fund their retirement.  Most acquisition deals fail within the final weeks of negotiations when using more traditional methods because if they sell for 3x of profit, once these funds are invested,
they typically pay less than 20% of the profit they made owning the business.  
On the other hand, our Partnering for Equity strategy is designed to enhance the value of their business by derisking it before selling it.   14. Build 'Know, Like, Trust' with sellers. Most traditional buyers will fail to buy a target business because they have failed to build up the emotional link between themselves and the seller.  Our Partnering for Equity strategy is designed to overcome these issues because you
are helping the seller prepare their business before you acquire equity.  
15. Faster growth. Acquiring equity in successful businesses with our Partnering for Equity strategy should speed up the acquisition of businesses considerably. That is because by following our principles, you are supporting sellers to prepare their business for sale, rather than simply wanting to buy them. Rather than acquiring 1 in 20 businesses you meet, you could acquire 10 of 20.  16. Lowering your risks. Partnering for Equity is designed to dramatically reduce the risks associated with acquiring companies because, by getting to know the sellers and
their businesses over 6 to 24 months, you should de-risk the business.

21

17 Avoid the post-sale failures. With traditional strategies, many businesses that are acquired will fail soon after or will cause considerable strains on your time and energy.  Fixing issues after you have acquired a business is an extremely high-risk strategy that can be avoided by using Partnering for Equity  However, with our Partnering for Equity model, you and our team will aim to fix many of the problems before you acquire the equity and this method is designed to reduce your
risks dramatically.
 18. Increases the likelihood of 'seller financing' . Partnering for Equity is designed to increase the levels of 'know, like and trust' with sellers and increase the likelihood of them accepting a 'seller financing' deal.  We call this our Secured Annuity Bond, and it is designed to enable you to avoid the banks, investors and the dreaded Personal Guarantees.  19. Turn your Acquisitions into MBOs. Banks and investors should have a greater appetite to fund business acquisitions that we have 'managed' under our Partnering for Equity service.  This should lead to smoother growth through a fully funded acquisition. Many banks should consider your acquisition as an MBO rather than an MBI, and this should reduce
your funding costs as well as make the acquisition easier to fund. 
In Conclusion.
Our Partnering for Equity strategy is optimised to acquire equity in a series of profitable businesses with the aim of giving you financial security without leveraging as much debt, considerably more quickly, with far less risk and much more easily than traditional methods.
Partnering for Equity should result in a much cleaner and quicker exit to PE
Include a video on this page of the above
1.5 Our Role:
22

We will devise a plan for how we will acquire equity in a series of established businesses in your sector, leading to an exit to Private Equity  We will help you strengthen and improve the value of your current business in every way, alongside making it far easier to operate. (if relevant)  We will give you a license to be an author of our book, Build to Retire, which will give
you a considerable advantage over 99.99% of other buyers 
We give you access to our data systems to source most of the businesses that may wish to sell now or in the future.   We use our distressed seller systems to help source businesses in distress early to enable our team to offer our 'support', leading to acquisitions.   We will handle all initial meetings and bring you with us so you can learn the sales process without burning your ideal prospects.  We will give you full access to our preferred suppliers to ensure the costs in the business are minimised..   We will give you full access to our specialist Solicitors to ensure that every equity acquisition goes to plan and that all the legal documentation in your business is fit for purpose.  We will conduct interviews with the potential sellers alongside you. This will save you from making Łmillion+ mistakes!  We will handle all negotiations and bring you along for this journey.   We will show you how to negate the considerable CGT liability on selling the group.  We will support you to become a key person of influence within the local community and become known as someone supporting and acquires equity in businesses in your niche.
We will raise the funds required to acquire equity. If/when the seller wishes to sell their shares, we can access government-backed funding of up to Ł2m per deal.
23

We will sell the group to PE
Include a video on this page of the above
1.6 Why should we help you?
 Successfully acquiring equity in a series of businesses requires a team that has resilience, tenacity, leadership, business know-how and influence combined with our expertise, knowledge, network and experience in all the areas outlined in this engagement.  To acquire equity in the best businesses, we need to help business owners prepare to sell or prepare the management to operate the business so the owner doesn't need to sell fully. To source relevant business owners in a local area takes local presence, sector knowledge and leadership; this is where our combined team wins.  We will help you to become known as the person who helps business owners in your sector achieve their dream retirement or a business that runs without them after they
have read your book, Build to Retire.
 Preparing a business requires local presence, leadership and expertise in all the areas that influence the building of a valuable business.  Those who wish to acquire businesses but fail to help the business owners prepare their business for the owner's exit face an uphill struggle to source the ideal businesses to buy, and are far less competitive than those with our strategy.    Therefore, working with an ambitious and experienced business leader such as yourself and combining your skills with our areas of expertise is a potent combination to maximise the opportunity to acquire equity in businesses in your niche. 
Our team working alongside you creates a substantial win-win for all stakeholders
Include a video on this page of the above
24


1.7 The Issues We Solve

You may already know that most sub-Ł10 m revenue businesses have disjointed systems, some of which are not fit for purpose or non-existent. These businesses are therefore 'unbuyable' by professional investors such as Private Equity. Poor systems also lead to the founders experiencing substantial risks that reduce the value of the business, and the business is substantially more difficult to run. PE doesn't buy
businesses that are a challenge to run.  These are primary areas that we can easily fix  1. To what degree is the business dependent on the owner's management and day-to-day activity? 

An `owner-dependent' business is worth considerably less than one that can be operated effectively without the owners. An owner-dependent business is therefore worth considerably less. Sometimes, the level of dependency results in a 90% discount on the value of the business
Owner-managed businesses are also incredibly stressful to operate, and older owners will be desperate for the support we can offer because we take the pressure from them, and their business starts to grow again.   Introducing our ERP systems will ensure that the owner becomes less pivotal to the
business's operations, which should increase profits and value, and they are likely to start enjoying running their business again.  2. To what degree does the business have systems underpinning its marketing and sales? 
We have a world-class marketing and sales system to increase quality and predictable lead flow, and then these leads are converted effectively, the net result being an
increase in profits and business value.   3. To what degree does the business have a professionally operated finance function? 
25


The lack of a Finance Function leads to poor MI, KPIs etc, etc., making the business unsellable. We can plug in robust finance function systems that give everyone more
visibility, and what is measured can be improved.  4. To what degree are the staff aligned with the business so we can undertake the improvements
We assess and map the team's structure, their strengths, and weaknesses, and we will close critical skill gaps in the team
We then lead by defining and communicating a clear mission, vision and set of values everyone believes in.
This leads to our team being inspired, and this creates the trust, clarity and sense of direction that turns the team into advocates.
This allows us to grow by investing in training, smart recruitment and the next generation of leaders.
We Nurture the team by Building an environment that earns loyalty, drives retention and makes people stay.
5. To what degree does the business have systems underpinning its operations? 
A lack of systems should cause any professional buyer concerns to such an extent that they will walk away from negotiations. Desperate buyers may stick around but demand considerable discounts. We have the world's best ERP system that we will implement in
every business.   5. To what degree is the business's management tied to the long-term within the business? 
Post-sale, without long-term incentives, many of the team members leave the company when the founder leaves. There are several systems we can implement to improve this
situation  8. Is the amount they are selling to you enough to fund their
26

retirement? 
 If the amount the founders sell for is not enough to create a 'pension', then it's likely they won't sell. A business selling at 3x profit, once invested, the founder will typically receive 80% less income than from their dividends. For most founders, this leads to the business not selling because they can't afford an 80% drop in income, or they do sell
and suffer the financial consequences.   9. To what degree is the business reliant on one supplier? 
Too many businesses are too reliant on key suppliers, creating a real risk, and we can
easily solve this issue.   10. To what degree are the agreements, including employment, legal and current?  Easily solved by our legal team   11. To what degree is there a group structure so that it does not need to be rebuilt? 
It is common to find that a company has not optimised its structure, such as using a holding company and splitting assets, liabilities and trading entities. We can quickly
solve these issues before they cause serious issues such as the overpaying of tax  Many other factors undermine the value of a business and ensure that we have plenty of issues to improve to justify our 20%+ equity 
All of these issues can be solved within our Partnering for Equity strategy, de-risking the acquisition considerably and making the lives of the current owners much easier during the process of improvement.
The owners will love us for these improvements, and within a few weeks, they should agree to give us 20% equity or more prior to an outright sale in a year. We aim to become the 'son/ daughter' and 'advisor' they never had. And the more we improve, the more they should become reliant on us
27

 Solving these issues will help us to become viewed as the safe pair of hands in the eyes of the current owners. This will increase the number of businesses we can acquire because most owners would prefer to sell to someone they know, like and trust.
Include a video on this page of the above
 
1.8 Gaining Equity Stakes before we Acquire Them
Over the first few months working alongside a business owner, our development of their people, derisking the business in general, the implementation of our ERP and AI solutions, all should have built up our reputation with them. The business founders and their management teams should start to trust us as a safe pair of hands to look after their business; Their 'baby'.. Because that is exactly what we are. Their trusted advisors and right-hand team.

This status puts you ahead of other potential buyers and even family members, because caring and showing that we can support their business builds trust that should lead to us being asked to acquire the business in the future.  Becoming a trusted pair of hands is a critical step in acquiring each business because they will often only sell to someone they can trust. This should give us a
considerable advantage over any other potential buyer. Considerable!
 After 3 months of supporting the business, our NED agreement can be converted to an equity-based agreement where we will take 10%-30% equity within the business without using loans or financial resources.   The current owners should agree to pass over the shares because we have changed their lives, the prospects of their business as well as the value of their business have probably risen by more than 20%, and we are due to buy them anyway. We can also agree to sign a call option with a future price that is higher than the original value. They won't want to miss out on this by refusing the 20% equity share with us.   The current business owners should have witnessed a positive shift in their business
28

operations, an increase in clients, profits and business valuation. They should gladly give you equity, and we will be the first people they ask to acquire the other 80%.  Once we are satisfied that the business is viable, we can offer to acquire more shares
or to transfer their shares into your holding company (a rollover)
Include a video on this page of the above

1.9 Become the Author of a book helping business sellers.  
As a buyer of businesses, nothing will elevate you into a position of authority and enable you to secure more acquisitions more effectively than being the author of a book written exclusively to help owners to prepare themselves and their business to sell or prepare the business to operate without them.   NOTHING COMES CLOSE TO LEVERAGING YOUR REPUTATION THAN BEING AN AUTHOR OF A BOOK THAT SHOWS THE READER HOW TO MAXIMIZE THE VALUE OF THE BUSINESS ON AN EXIT  We will grant you the license to become a co-author and amend our book, Build to Retire  Build to Retire took in excess of 1,000 hours to write, and its content has been honed from 3 decades of experience.  In your sector, there are probably hundreds of 'traditional business buyers' approaching
the same businesses as you. 
Being the author of a book that helps sellers should elevate you above the crowd and dramatically increase the number of meetings resulting in acquisitions.   Just picture this: You are a 67-year-old business owner, and you appear on hundreds of databases, resulting in being pestered by hundreds of business buyers who ask you to sell your precious business to them, a stranger. It's annoying, and you become numb to
the constant letters.
29


Then you come along...... sending them your own version of Build to Retire, a book that genuinely helps them prepare their business for sale. Helping them should give the impression of you being a 'trusted advisor' and not just a private equity vulture. And this is a powerful message.  Who do you think receives the call? The pesky letter and email writers, demanding that he sell his business to them, or do they call you, offering to help him and sending them a free book, with a handwritten note inside?  That's why, instead of sending 1,000 letters per month, we probably only need to send
fewer than 20- 50 books for a similar result. Acquiring equity in 20 businesses should
probably only require sending out 1,000-2,000 books.  Better still, being the author of your own version of Build to Retire should ensure you overcome part of the emotional trauma of a business owner selling their `baby' because they should see you as someone who will look after their business and their team.  You should be seen as a giver and not just a taker, and that should have a dramatic effect on people's opinion of you from the get-go.  Being an author should give you compelling levels of authority, respect and credibility, and if your prospects read a book you wrote and it resonates with them, the deal should be almost done, before you even arrive for the meeting.   Once they have read your book, the business seller should often make up their mind to work with you over anyone else, even if they only read up to page 20! How else can you
gain this level of traction, authority and build in 'know, like and trust'? 
Our book took 12 solid weeks to write, working exclusively on it 8 to 12 hours per day. This included extensive research in addition to the actual writing and hundreds of hours of editing. The good news for you is that in as little as 10 hours of your time, you can become the co-author of your own version of Build to Retire. You need to add your Bio and amend the basics of the book to fit your niche and your style. We will then edit the book, design the front cover, and publish it all at a tiny fraction of the cost of starting from a blank piece of paper.   As a Partner of ours, we give you a license to amend the book to fit you and your
market.

30

Here is a link to the 'base' book that we will enable you to license.
https://books.by/blue-sky-books

Include a video on this page of the above

 2 Our Team

David Hargraves Ric Wilson Emma Dutton Adam Wilson

All Things Strategy All Things Operational All Things Financial All Things AI

Include a video on this page of the above

4. Resources section
List the books here on books.by
5. Contact us
Call to action contact page
6. Youtube Combine Davids and Rics? Discuss.

31

